All right let's go ahead and paint the garden for our sword.
So first what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and select all the layers that make up my handle
and then I'm to put those into a folder for now.
So they're out of the way then I can come up to the part of my sort that makes up the guard.
I'm going to start with this bottom part.
Now this is going to be very similar to painting this bottom part that we did before.
The only difference is that this surface was rounded and this one is going to be flat.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing we're going to do is add a new layer above this layer and then we're going to turn
it into a clipping mask and then we're going to grab our color white and we're going to start adding
in those highlights.
So because of this top piece is over this bottom piece there's going to be a cast shadow just like there
is already here and also down here.
So let's go ahead and make sure we paint that in.
Whoops.
Make sure your brush opacity is at 20 percent and then we're going to paint through the metal like a
and you can do another layer of that
and we'll just continue to do this until we get it pretty wide.
You can change up the direction of our brush strokes to make it look more interesting.
Remember that because this is a flat surface you want the shine on your metal to be consistent throughout
the whole thing.
You don't want it to start to fade off on these edges because that would make it look like it was a
cylinder.
I mean you go ahead and select this dark gray color here and paint along the bottom like so because
you would still be seeing a little bit of shadow on that bottom edge.
And then I might add just a little tiny bit of shadow on this edge.
This is not a shadow that will be blended in to our highlight.
It's going to be a pretty hard line.
And that's just because there'd be shadow on those edges.
Then I'm going to go ahead and add a little bit more of a drop shadow on this area.
Now I'm going to go ahead and grab my rust colored so couldn't come down into my reddish oranges and
be a little bit lower.
Grab a color from about there.
No no.
Go ahead and brush some of that in a lot of my bottom edge
and then I'm going to go ahead and grab my Durka rust colors somewhere down here.
I can go out and start painting.
And with that I can turn my brush opacity up to 50 percent or 80 percent if you want but I'm going to
stick with 50 percent because I don't want it too bright.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and move up to the top part of our guard.
So I'm going to go ahead and come up to that layer and we need to merge these two layers together so
that they're one and then I'm going to add a layer above that and turn it into a clipping layer mask.
So now let's go ahead and get painting on this.
So switch over to my white collar.
I'll go ahead and start by doing the highlight on the top area.
Another thing is that this metal and the sword itself doesn't have to be exactly perfect because this
is kind of an old looking sword.
And so back in the days when they'd make swords where blacksmiths would actually hammer them out of
hot steel.
They would have little imperfections and stuff.
So it's OK.
Has imperfections it actually makes it look a little bit more interesting and look more like as character
paint down here.
I'm going to try to leave the bottom of this dark gray so that we have a shadow on that bottom edge.
I'm going to bring my size up a little bit just so I can build this a little bit faster.
Now I want these edges of my guard to actually taper off a little bit.
So the way I'm going to make it look like it's tapering off is by making the middle a little bit brighter
than the outside.
So I'll go to there with my highlight come in a little bit closer towards the center and I'll keep doing
that till I get to the center and I get to white and it would be looking like it's tapering off a little
bit too much so I might kind of come back out there a little bit more then I'm going to go ahead and
select this light gray that I have here.
And then using my brush to go ahead and start painting with that just to get some more texture in there
because I don't want it to just be solid white
and I can also paint over this dirt gray under here because I don't want it to be that dark.
Right cool.
Now let's go ahead and select a rust color.
So come down into our orange ish red.
Grab that color and a little bit more saturated.
And then I can go ahead and paint with that one.
I brought them
then I'm going to go ahead and grab a darker more saturated color.
I'm not painting with that
then I can grab a little bit darker version of that and bring my brush rapacity up to 5 percent.
And I can go ahead and paint in some little pieces of rust like so next I'm going to go ahead and paint
in some darker gray on these edges.
So when it's like this work great here I'm just going to paint some of that in just like so saying over
here and then I'm going to go ahead and select my white and paint a little bit more white in the center
area.
And I'm also going to fill this top area back in with white and then add white down.
These edges in with here.
Perfect.
Now I'm also going to add a bound sleigh on the bottom of this part of the sword.
So the way I'm going to do that is by grabbing my rust color and I'm going to go ahead and bring my
brush capacity up to 50 percent and I'm going to brush along this bottom edge like so and just on these
edges
I'm going to do the same thing underneath here on this part of the sword.
And this just makes it look a little bit more interesting even if you don't know where the bounce light
is coming from.
It's going to make it look a lot more realistic if you can add a little bit of bounce light somewhere.
So I'll go ahead and come in to my folder also and I'm going to add that down here because I didn't
do it down there.
So we'll start with this part out and in right along this bottom area and then we're going to come to
that top part and we'll come right along this bottom area also.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and close the folder and come back into our guard folder.
And now we can start selecting colors and painting with them at full opacity.
So I'm going to start with this color right here and then putting my brush opacity at 100 percent I'm
going to go ahead and start painting with that same with on this side and then I can go and select the
next color or painting with that
and then I'm going to start selecting this rust color that's sort of a mix between my white and my rust
and I can start painting in those areas just like so.
Awesome.
Let's go ahead and zoom out and see.
That looks pretty good.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to paint the guard of your sword and you also learn how to add a little
bit of bounce light in there to make it look more realistic.
Now once we get a great background in there and it's more neutral you're going to see that bounce light
a lot more and it'll look a lot better.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I look forward to seeing you in the next one.